We just finished creating our flowers.
And now we want to add
in this functionality
of filtering these flowers, these movies.
So we want to be able to filter by
the genre or parental guidance rating.
So let's build up to the point
that we can do that together.
So in this lesson,
we're going to learn how to not only
create DOM elements from scratch based on
the data, but what if our data changes and
updates and
we want the DOM to update to match that.
So let's take a look at our
simple bar chart again.
Here's the current data we have.
And let's say that this is already
being rendered to the DOM.
And it's already being bound to
the five rectangles in the SVG.
And let's say this is
the new data that we want
to update to inthis kind
of a rray of integers.
And so this is where you might have
heard of this before the enter update
exit pattern.
And this is where that pattern comes in.
And so the very first thing that we
need to do is actually the .data
function again.
The .data is really powerful
because it not only binds our data
to our selection and also calculates
our enter selection for us.
It also calculates our update and
exit selection as well.
And to help with that, we'll oftentimes
use this thing called a key function.
So, previously, we had our svg and
we've selected all of our rectangles.
And actually now what we have
in our svg is these five
rectangles with all of our
previous data bound to it.
So this part should return,
this .selectAll rectangles
should return a selection of
these five rectangle elements.
And we'll call .data on that and
you can see, like before,
we'll pass in an array of data.
So we'll pass in that new
data of the eight integers.
And then the new thing that
we're learning is this part,
this thing called a key function.
And what a key function is that is,
we tell D3 what to
access in the bound data
to control which data,
so which of these new data is assigned
to which elements in the selection.
And I wanna make a note that currently
this example that we're showing is
quite trivial because we're using
just the boundary integer on each of
these rectangle elements.
But usually in the charts or
virtualizations that we might make,
usually we'll be passing in and binding
an object to each of our DOM elements.
And them in that object,
we'll you usually have a unique ID.
And that unique ID is what we should
be returning in our key function so
that D3 knows how to match up
the new data with our DOM.
Let's take a look at what .data is
actually doing for us underneath the hood.
So with the key function,
now D3 can calculate our exit,
update, and enter selections.
And so the way that it does that is first,
actually yeah,
so the first way that it
calculates the update selection
is that it takes a look
at the new dataset.
And it takes a look at our
rectangle elements and it says,
hey, 84 and 45 is already in
our DOM in the rectangles.
And it's in the new data set too.
So we're going to call
that the update selection.
So those are the two rectangle
elements that match the new data.
So they'll remain on the screen and
that's the update selection.
It will also calculate the exit selection.
And so those are the three currently
existing three rectangle elements.
So these three that have datum
bound not in the new data array,
so we must remove them from the DOM.
And finally, we have the enter selection.
And the enter selection is D3
takes a look at the new data and
it sees these six data
elements that are new and
not currently existing in the DOM here.
So it makes a note that
it needs to be created.
And just a little bit of
a small note that if we haven't
provided a key function,
D3 actually defaults to
using the integer of our data
array as the key instead.
So here's what the D3 selection
looks like with the new data bound.
I also find this one really interesting.
So first of all, _groups which is what
we've been looking at all along and
it is kind of what the selection is.
In this case, when .data returns it,
_groups represents our update selection.
And if you open that up,
you can see that it is consisting
of three empty slots and
two of the rectangle elements.
And those two rectangle
elements are the ones 84 and
45 that also exist in the new data.
So .data keeps track of
the update selection in this way.
And then if we take a look at the exit
selection, you can see that it is,
The other three of our rectangles
that aren't in the new data set.
And it's very interesting.
I think it's really interesting
how they keep track of it.
And finally, for the intersection,
here is the enter selection.
And it's very similar to what we
saw before where we have these
place holder elements for
each of the new data elements.
And then where these
two existing rectangle
elements should go remain empty.
And actually it is the update
selection already puts
our existing elements in
the order that they should go in.
So you can see thatit already says
there's two empty at the beginning,
because there's two placeholder items
elements that need to be created.
Then it's the current
existing element empty,
and then it kinda maps that way.
So by the time .data returns this,
we've actually also reordered
the existing DOM elements to match
the order of the new data array.
Because if you noticed
in the update selection,
45 and 84 were at different places and
then they've kind of switched
around in the new data array.